So far we've covered reading data
from a large number of sources,
whether it's from different
file types like the XML or
JSON files, or whether it's different
sources like HDFI, or MySQL.
While I've covered a few
of the highlights,
I think that there's a large number
of other places where you might wanna
be able to get data from, and I have by
no means comprehensively covered all of
the different R packages that can
be used to access those data.
Roger has a really nice advertising
video on how there's an R package for
everything, kind of modeled on the Apple,
there's an app for
everything, Here I'm gonna briefly review
a few useful packages I know about,
but you should by no means consider
this a comprehensive list.
In general, I found the best way to find
out if an R package exists is to Google
data storage mechanism,
followed by R package.
You just time R, sometimes I haven't
been able to find it with the search.
So for example, I might type,
my SQL R package, and
that usually comes up with the very first
taking, the most interesting package.
I found that almost every kind of data
type that you might wanna have access to,
as long as its relatively common, there's
a R package for accessing the data.
If you wanna interact directly with files,
we've seen how to use URL in
getting data lectures so far, but you
can also use the File function to access
a connection to a particular file that's
already localized on your computer.
You could also use gzfile and
bzfile to access zipped files that
might be laying on your computer.
And then, if you do question mark
connections, you can learn a lot
more about opening connections to files,
both locally and remotely.
The foreign package is very useful if
you work with people who use other
programming languages or
other statistical programming languages.
So, it loads data from files for Minitab,
S, SAS, SPSS and a bunch of others.
So, the basic functions read like read and
then .foo, where foo is the extension for
the particular file from
the particular programming language.
So, for example it's dta for Stata, and
it it's an Octave file it's .octave.
And if it's SPSS it's .spss.
And then you can read .xport
files from SAS, for example.
If you want to see a lot more
about this you can go read
about the Foreign package in the help file
which is pretty self explanatory, and
I've been able to read most files
from other programming languages.
There's also a large number of
other database packages, so for
example PostgreSQL, I've provided
DB-compliant database connection from R.
So, here's a tutorial,
actually at this first link.
And then the second link is the help file.
There's also the RODBC,
which provides interfaces for
multiple databases including PostgreQL,
MySQL, Microsoft Access, and SQLite.
There's a tutorial here
that's very nice as well, and
then a help file that will give you,
walk you through most of the functions.
If you use MongoDb, there's actually
a very nice package called RMongo, and
there's also another package, RMongoDb,
which can be used to interface with
MongoDb and
extract data from that database.
Again, you're gonna be sending queries
very similar to the way you were doing
with the R MySQL package,
you're gonna actually send queries to the
database using the database's own syntax.
So, if you're gonna use the R package,
you have to learn just a little bit about
the syntax for
the database to be able to extract data.
You can also read other things that aren't
necessarily data in the traditional format
in terms of text files and so forth.
You can read directly images with jpeg,
or readbitmap, png.
These are all, png,
these are all functions that allow you
to access image files that load them
into R directly and manipulate them.
The EBI image package in bioconductor
is also very nice for analyzing and
manipulating image data.
You can read GIS data, so this is
geographic information systems data.
You can read it with a variety of
different packages that will allow you
to access and play with different
kinds of GIS data that are exported by
proprietary and not proprietary software.
Another cool thing that you
can read is directly from mp3.
So you can use either the tuneR or
the seewave packages to actually
read musical data, and do analysis.
There's a lot of nice musical processing
software in R that you can use to
analyze those data, and come up with
interesting cool new analysis, as well.
So like I said, this is just a list of
the packages that I thought of off the top
of my head, but
whatever your application is,
you can just Google the R package that
will allow you to access the data.
There's always an R package for that.